##spring-boot-prototype

Thinking about leveraging Spring Boot to rapidly develop REST services for your application or enterprise. This prototype project will help you to get up and running as quickly as possible.

### Quick Start

The easiest way to get started with the prototype is to clone or download this repository.

	git clone https://github.com/markramach/spring-boot-prototype.git
	
Then simply run the following command:

	mvn spring-boot:run
	
Once the Spring Boot application is up and running you can execute a HTTP `GET` request on the sample resource.

	http://localhost:8080/say-hello?name=world
	
You should see the following response:

	{"hello":"world"}
	
### Building A Runnable Jar File

One of the big advantages of using Spring Boot is the runnable jar generated by the Spring Boot Maven Plugin. Building the jar is as simple as running the Maven build.

	mvn package
	
Once the build is complete, the target directory will contain 2 files for the artifact. An original jar, containing only the project class files and resources, as well a full jar containing all the project dependencies.

	drwxr-xr-x   9 mramach  staff       306 May 20 13:11 .
	drwxr-xr-x  12 mramach  staff       408 May 20 13:11 ..
	drwxr-xr-x   3 mramach  staff       102 May 20 13:11 classes
	drwxr-xr-x   3 mramach  staff       102 May 20 13:11 generated-sources
	drwxr-xr-x   3 mramach  staff       102 May 20 13:11 maven-archiver
	drwxr-xr-x   3 mramach  staff       102 May 20 13:11 maven-status
	-rw-r--r--   1 mramach  staff  12496340 May 20 13:11 spring-boot-prototype-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
	-rw-r--r--   1 mramach  staff      3217 May 20 13:11 spring-boot-prototype-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar.original
	drwxr-xr-x   2 mramach  staff        68 May 20 13:11 test-classes
	
Once the full jar file is generated simply run a `java -jar` command to start the application.

	java -jar target/spring-boot-prototype-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar